The following observations have been recorded in a word document over the course of the semester:

WEEK 1
I'll admit it now upfront: I don't care much for coding. No, scratch that: I'm rather terrified of it. To put it plainly, I've spent much of my life attempting to avoid anything that 
would require even a modicum of coding knowledge. During digital technology classes in highschool, I'd spend class making the sprites look as unique as possible, or else drawing surrepitiously in the margins
everytime my teacher's back was turned. Honestly, I've never had any interest in coding; all those symbols and numbers might as well be hierogylphics for all that I can discern them. 
And everytime I've been given leave to try in the past, the result has been a throbbing headache and
a twisting stomach. That same sensation plagued me this week as I sat down for my first class, dread sitting heavy in my stomach right alongside the two lukewarm
weetbix I'd had for breakfast. This feeling only intensified when my tutor showed the class examples of other people's creations: timed poems, animated sprites,
blinking text...it all seems so terribly beyond reach, and I can't quite shake the feeling that I'm in over my head. But I selected this class to gain useful industry
skills, and if I want to work in the digital age, I suppose I have to learn to be adaptable. We looked at three pieces this week: 'Taroko Gorge', 'The Gathering Cloud', and 'Shade.'
I'll confess, I didn't care much for any of them. I gave up on 'Shade' almost immeadiately, frustrated by my lack of progress, and I found 'The Gathering Cloud' to be
overstimulating and too-experimental for my taste. 'Taroko Gorge' was impressive with its use of timed poetry, but I didn't care much for the poems themselves,
and I struggled to follow along when my tutor broke down the inner-mechanics of it. With this in mind, I don't think I'll be attempting any of these for my own project.

WEEK 2
No class.

WEEK 3
This week, we prepared for our upcoming presentations on a chosen digital work. I'd taken the time last week to select my favourities from the archives given,
and I've found I tend to favour the more simplisitic pieces. No surprises there, I suppose. I also prefer the works that have clear narrative intention, much like
a traditionally written piece would. Needless to say, I'm not very fond of the more experimental, abstract pieces. As such, I've chosen Anna Antrophy's 'Hunt for
the Gay Planet,' a choose-your-own-adventure game written from the second-person perspective. Witty, satiricial and relatively easy to follow, I was drawn to this
piece by its snappy title, and the relevance it holds in my own life. Additionally, I found the idea of a choose-your-own-adventure format very appealing, and
and I'm already beginning to think up ways I can utilise it to create my own narrative. This week, we also had a go at formulating our own poems using a round-robin
of techniques, such as Daidaism and Lipograms. We were split into groups, and each group was able to experience two of the five offered techniques, which made
for some truly bewildering results. My own group attempted the N+7 and Lipogram techniques, neither of which I enjoyed very much. I found each technique
frustrating and overly elaborate, while the resulting poems were frustraingly nonsensical (if occasionally amusing.) To be completely honest, the entire
thing felt like a big waste of time, and I resolved to avoid employing these techniques in the future, should the opportunity arise.

WEEK 4
In week 4, I had to give the first of two presentations. Naturally, I was dreading it. As a sufferer of rather severe social anxiety, I was convinced I'd
make a complete fool of myself - despite writing extensively on each slide about my chosen piece. After sitting through my classmates' presentations, however, I quickly
came to recognise this as a mistake. Rather than dot-points, I'd chosen to include large slabs of information on each slide of my presentation, and my lack
of script left me standing before the board and trying to parse my notes in front of the class. Still, it could've gone worse, and at the very least I'm proud of the
slides I turned in. It did seem, however, that many of my classmates were simply on a completely different level. It felt each of them had not only done extesive research
into their pieces, but had managed to create exchanging presentations that held the class at rapt attention. I could only marvel at the breadth of knowledge my
peers displayed, and their ambition for our final projects. Every single one of my classmates had produced quality presentations, and, even if I didn't care for every
piece shown, it was fascinating to learn what had drawn my peers to their chosen works. For me, working on this task has solidifed my desire to create a choose-your-
own-adventure game in Antrophy's witty voice. Unfortunately, I've yet to consider what I wish to do beyond this, as I find the prospect of creating my own work
to be quite intimidating.

WEEK 5
This week, we were introduced to Twine and its corresponding functions. Unsurprisingly, I approached this program with trepidation, convinced I'd be
unable to produce anything substantial. Our tutor used the last hour of class to demonstrate Twine's function to us, which I, admittedly, found difficult to follow.
We were then instructed to create our own storylines and attempt to produce them, using Twine, over the course of the week. To my relief, I was quickly proven wrong regarding Twine's
difficulty. Despite a few initial hiccups, I found Twine delightfully straightforward; it took only an hour before I was producing my own
story, and I excitedly encouraged my younger sister to play through it. Though it was a small thing, I felt wonderfully accomplished,
and slightly less like a technological moron. And as I worked, it was as though the uncertainty obscuring my final project dispersed before me: this is what I would use to make my choose-your-own-
adventure piece. I'm certain, with a little bit more practice, I'll be able to utilise Twine to create something equally as entertaining as 'Gay Planet,'
and though I've STILL yet to think of an idea, this project suddenly seems significantly less impossible.

WEEK 6
Week 6 saw the class learning to insert images into our Twine stories, alongside changing font types, background colours and image sizes. It took me quite a bit of trial
and error (and a lot of help from the tutor), but eventually I managed to insert a stock image of a wedding aisle into my Twine story. This success bolstered
my confidence, and also presented an entirely new set of possibilities: the story-telling capabilities of an image-based work. Furthermore, I've always enjoyed drawing,
and my recent acquisition of an apple pen and the procreate app means I could incorporate my own art into the story. This, I reasoned, would allow me to create
something unique without requiring great amounts of coding. After learning the basics of Twine, the class went on to download GitHub Desktop, an imperative
step when inserting images into Twine. Unfortunately, this quickly stumped me. I had no idea of GitHub's function, and it took me almost the entire class before
I truly understood the purpose of it in relation to my Twine story. But when it finally clicked, the relief was such that I left class that day with a spring in my
step. Now that I have a basic outline for my final project, I simply need to come up with a story.

WEEK 7
This week I had to address what I've been attempting to ignore since the beginning of the semester: the task of conceptualising my own digital piece.
I'd already vetoed several intriguing narrative avenues out of the sheer certainty that I would be incapable of incorporating my ideas into a digital setting.
My aim for this piece is to produce something both entertaining and realistic, something I can reasonably expect to complete that won't induce me to
tear my hair out at the roots. At least, finally, I’ve come up with an idea for my piece, which I'm titling: Customer Service Simulator. It will function much as 'Hunt for the Gay Planet' did,
in a choose-your-own-adventure type format. I've drawn inspiration from dating sims such as 'Dream Daddy' for its one-on-one conversations, and will be using dialogue trees to guide players through interactions with four archetypical customers. 
Like 'Gay Planet,' I ultmiately want to produce something socially relevant, drawing on today's cost of living crisis and the universal audacity of real-life customers to create a reltably
frustrating day of work.

WEEK 8
I gave my second presentation this week, and I fear it was markedly worse than last time. In attempting to provide myself a script, I forgot to
remove information from my slide, and so, alongside being completely redundant, my script served only to distract me from 
enchanging my audience. I spent the duration of it flustered and struggling to find my place, which I fear will seriously injure my grade.
In better news, I've already begun production on my piece, utilising the prototype from my proposal as the basis of the final draft. Primarily, 
much of the process follows that of a creative narrative, as each text box requires at least 3-4 lines of description and dialogue. I’ve been thoroughly enjoying this aspect of my project, 
as character interactions have always been one of my favourite things to write - and in this way, I’ve managed to incorporate a level of comfort into 
what is otherwise a daunting task. I've also now drawn all required images, which was fun in itself, and am eager to see how the final layout will appear
when I combine my art with the format of a dialogue tree. However, though the coding is thankfully sparse, the only real challenge involves the inclusion of 
my hand-drawn images. Despite copying the code exactly from my tutor’s notes, I can’t seem to get my drawings to appear; this is worrying, 
as the artwork is an integral piece of the project. I will endeavour to try again when I get a chance.

WEEK 9
I have successfully begun incorporating images into my work! After hastily emailing my teacher in a panic, I discovered I'd simply been launching Twine
from a browser rather than from my github file - which I'd also forgotten to keep updating intimittently. Furthermore, I was ignorant to the importance of
uploading my pictures online before attempting to use them. Ordinarily, this would not be an issue, as any photo found on the internet would already be 'online.'
But because my images are hand-drawn, I've had to indivudally upload each picture to Flickr and then redownload them using Flickr's software. This was an unforeseen
obstacle, but one that, with a little extra time, is easily overcome. Another challenge has been the sheer magnitiude of images I've had to keep track of. As so many
of my pictures are almost identical, save for a change in expression or pose, it's been a struggle to ensure each image ends up in the correct box; more than once
I've had a customer openly beaming while supposedly chewing the player out. As such, I've taken to labelling each image in correspondence to their emotion and
customer number, ie. 'customer2angry.' Still, this system has made it hard to differentiate the images from each other, but it's the only one I can presently think of.
In terms of progress, I've completed all interactions pertaining to the first customer and am preparing to tackle the second. So far, I've experienced no other coding issues 
- which I undoubtedly have Twine, in all its straightforward glory, to thank for. This is also, admittedly, by own design; outside of the occasional italicised word,
I've avoided attmepting anything beyond the default.

WEEK 10
This week I worked on my second and third customers, constructing their dialogue trees and formulating each pathway. Initially, I struggled to complete
customer two's pathway - as, while I had a vague idea of where I wanted it to go, I hadn’t planned anything concrete. As such, I found myself unable to decide
on the outcome of each dialogue option, and so my piece remained in limbo for most of this week. By the time I finished customer two, I was so exhausted
and unwilling to repeat the process that I realised a change of strategy was in order. It became quickly apparent to me that this approach would not allow for effective story-telling, 
and would likely lessen the quality of the remaining interactions. As such, I decided to sketch out a script beforehand and lay out the roadmaps to each line of dialogue in a word doc. Unfortunately,
this, too, had it's drawbacks, for, without Twine's visual reference, I struggled to outline each opton in a way that made sense and could be read at a glance. After a bit of trial-and-error,
I settled for a hybrid method: I outlined the basis of each dialogue option in a word doc, then switched to Twine to further flesh out and detail each corresponding pathway. I truly found
Twine's digital map to be integral to the construction of my piece, as it's overhead view of my piece has kept me from becoming overwhelmed.
It's also brought to my attention my preference for visual outlines over solely textual ones, which I was not wholly aware of until this project. I believe this will enable me to formulate
better plans in the future, ensuring less time is spent agonising over minute decisions.


